# Stark-program
Stark effect, , the splitting of spectral lines observed when the radiating atoms, ions, or molecules are subjected to a strong electric field. The electric analogue of the Zeeman effect (i.e., the magnetic splitting of spectral lines), it was discovered by a German physicist, Johannes Stark (1913). Earlier experimenters had failed to maintain a strong electric field in conventional spectroscopic light sources because of the high electrical conductivity of luminous gases or vapours. Stark observed the hydrogen spectrum emitted just behind the perforated cathode in a positive-ray tube. With a second charged electrode parallel and close to this cathode, he was able to produce a strong electric field in a space of a few millimetres. At electric field intensities of 100,000 volts per centimetre, Stark observed with a spectroscope that the characteristic spectral lines, called Balmer lines, of hydrogen were split into a number of symmetrically spaced components, some of which were linearly polarized (vibrating in one plane) with the electric vector parallel to the lines of force, the remainder being polarized perpendicular to the direction of the field except when viewed along the field. This transverse Stark effect resembles in some respects the transverse Zeeman effect, but, because of its complexity, the Stark effect has relatively less value in the analysis of complicated spectra or of atomic structure. Historically, the satisfactory explanation of the Stark effect (1916) was one of the great triumphs of early quantum mechanics.
